Good morning, everyone.
This morning worship program is originating from world headquarters at Warwick, New York.
And brothers and sisters, it's a real privilege and pleasure to speak to all of you on this
special day when we observe the memorial of the death of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Today's text will remind us of the unjust treatment that He suffered at the hands of sinners.
When we have brother William Malone follow here, Bill is a helper with the teaching committee.
Bill, will you read the text for us, please?
Friday, April the 19th, the memorial date after sundown.
The text is taken from Psalm 118, verse 22.
The stone that the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone.
Thank you, Bill.
Although Jesus was rejected by the leaders of the Jewish nation, what counted to him was
having Jehovah's approval.
You know, I love the way the Apostle Peter put it, according to 1 Peter chapter 2 and
verse 4.
Peter said that Jesus was rejected by men, but precious to God, isn't that nice?
Now if you're the type of person who gets a little bit upset when you're rejected at
the doors, maybe as someone slams the door in your face, why not just think about this
phrase, rejected by men, but precious to God?
Memorize it, rejected by men, precious to God, and then think about it, it'll help.
Now speaking of the ministry, I thought I'd focus the rest of my comments on the important
work we all have to do today to invite as many as possible to the memorial.
If you have time off from work today, no doubt you'll be sharing in the ministry, and
that's what Bethel family members all over the world are going to be doing today.
But whether you have time off or not, there are things you can do to make sure that as many
as possible are in attendance tonight.
If you have to go to work or to school, why not talk to a workmate, a schoolmate whom
you think would be willing to attend the memorial?
You might be happy at the outcome.
And don't forget to get in touch with your Bible students and return visits today.
I'm going to repeat that.
Don't forget to get in touch with your Bible students and return visits today, even if
you've already invited them to the memorial.
Why?
Well, your return visits might have misplaced the invitation, and perhaps they've forgotten
what day it is.
All right, return visits, but what about our Bible students?
Sometimes we take it for granted that such and such a Bible student is going to be there
and he doesn't show up.
And later, we learn that he allowed some trivial matter to interfere with his attendance.
A little extra encouragement won't hurt.
And what about those who used to associate with this but are inactive?
It seems to me that they fall into two categories.
You have some who would never miss the memorial.
They appreciate what Christ has done and they're there.
And we love them, and we're so glad to see them.
And then there's a second group who may feel that it's hypocritical on their part to attend
the memorial because they've missed every other meeting during the year.
They have to start somewhere, don't they?
So we want to give them loving reassurance and a warm invitation to come.
And don't forget unbelieving husbands who might respond better to an invitation from
an outsider than from their wife.
Friends don't underestimate the value of a brief visit or a phone call to an inactive person.
One time ago, on the day of the memorial, the visiting speaker and the coordinator of
the body of elders paid a visit to a brother who was inactive.
Now that brother hadn't attended a meeting for 15 years.
And yet before that, he had been very active in the truth of fact.
He'd enjoyed many privileges in the organization.
What did the brothers do?
They simply listened.
As the brother relived the experiences he'd enjoyed when he was active.
At the end of the conversation, they simply said, we'd love to see you with the memorial.
Wouldn't you come?
The brother came.
Now most in the congregation didn't know who he was, but they gave him a warm welcome.
And you know what?
That was all it took.
That brother never looked back.
He was faithful to Jehovah for the rest of his life.
Now what about some of you dear ones who have been asked to work secularly at the night?
You may be new on the job, and maybe your boss has the reputation for being a bit inflexible.
You might say, he'd never give me the time off.
What to do?
Why not approach Jehovah in earnest prayer?
Tell him how you feel?
Ask him to touch the heart of your boss and ask him to help you to present your request
respectfully and in an appealing way.
You might be surprised at the outcome.
Jehovah's servants have always taken the memorial seriously.
Our brothers and sisters even observed it in concentration camps and labor camps,
such as this one in Mordovia.
Following that pattern, in our day our young brothers who were imprisoned in Korea
didn't allow prison bars to prevent them from keeping the festival.
In parts of Africa, interested ones may have to travel long distances to get to the village
or the city where the memorial is going to be observed.
In Tanzania, a Bible student moved to a remote area where there was no congregation.
The nearest congregation was more than 60 miles away.
Out of those in Western lands, that may not seem like much.
But in the area where he lived, that was going to require a grueling eight-hour bus trip.
Why?
Number one, the roads were bad.
Number two, the bus made a lot of stops.
But he was there.
And after the meeting, the man pleaded with the brothers to visit him, at least once
a month so he could continue his studies.
Well, that man had put forth an effort to attend the memorial so the congregation had
to reciprocate and a few weeks later a special pioneer couple visited him.
To their surprise, they found that the student was already studying with seventeen other
people in the village.
How important is it to attend the memorial?
In Congo, a traveling overseer in his wife showed great determination to observe it.
They had to travel on a very bad road to a congregation where the memorial was going
to be observed.
And the road was so bad that the motorcycle they were riding on broke down.
There was a defective part and no replacement available.
So the traveling overseer and his wife were stuck.
They were going to have to observe the memorial right there at an unfamiliar village.
There was a problem.
No congregation.
No brothers.
Undeterred, the brother went to the village chief and explained the importance of the
occasion and the chief responded.
He allowed the brother to observe the memorial on his property and he even commissioned some
young man to clean the place up and build a platform for the speaker.
So now the location was ready.
But you have to have an audience.
Well, a couple had invitations and these were distributed in the village.
And as a result, 80 villagers attended the memorial.
Now, of course, what's a memorial without music without songs?
These people were not witnesses.
They didn't know our songs.
But the traveling overseer's wife was a good singer and so she helped the audience to sing
the two memorial songs.
In the evening of Africa, in Liberia, a congregation of 130 decided that they were going to do everything
in their power to invite many, many people to the memorial.
So in the days leading up to the memorial, eight publishers worked from nine in the morning
till six at night, distributing invitations.
Now, the memorial was held in an open field and do you know how many attended?
A congregation of 130, 3,410.
In many places in Africa, it's common for a congregation of 100 or more to have an attendance
into the thousands.
Well, you might say, all right, that's Africa, but in our congregation, we're not going
to have a thousand people.
But you are going to work just as hard as our African brothers do.
And Jehovah is going to bless you just the same as He has blessed them.
In addition to inviting interested ones, there's another thing all of us can do to get ready
for the memorial.
At first Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 7, Paul wrote in part, so then, let us keep the
festival with sincerity and truth.
Now whether we're the anointed or of the great crowd, all of us should examine ourselves
now to see if we can do more to be pleasing to Jehovah.
Are we holding a grudge against a brother or sister?
Now would be a good time to let it go.
Are we allowing some bad habit to hold us back for making spiritual progress?
Now would be an excellent time to take decisive action against it.
Just doing this in remembrance of Me.
That's a command Jehovah's Witnesses take very seriously.
So our prayer is that Jehovah will bless your zealous efforts to invite others to join
us.
Now Bill, will you please read today's comment from examining the Scriptures?
The builders, the Jewish leaders, rejected the Messiah.
Our rejection was far more than just turning their backs on Jesus or refusing to accept
Him as the Christ.
Many Jews rejected Him to the point of clamoring for His death.
Yes, they contributed to Jesus being killed.
If Jesus was rejected and killed, how could He become the chief cornerstone?
That could come about only by His being resurrected to life again.
The Apostle Peter spoke of Jesus Christ, the Nazarene, whom you executed on a stake,
but whom God raised up from the dead.
This resurrected Son thus became the only one whose name was given among men by which
we must get saved.
Now please follow along as we enjoy today's recorded Bible reading.
From the first day of the unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying,
Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover?
He said, Go into the city to sow and sow and say to Him, The teacher says, My appointed
time is near, I will celebrate the Passover with my disciples at your home.
So the disciples did as Jesus instructed them and prepared for the Passover.
The day of the unleavened bread now arrived, on which the Passover sacrifice must be offered.
So Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, Go and get the Passover ready for us to eat.
They said to Him, Where do you want us to get it ready?
He said to them, Look, when you enter into the city, a man carrying an earthenware water
jar will meet you.
Follow him into the house that he enters and say to the landlord of the house, The teacher
says to you, Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
And that man will show you a large furnished upper room.
Get it ready there.
So they left and found it just as he had told them and they prepared for the Passover.
When evening came, he was reclining at the table with the twelve disciples.
While they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, One of you will betray me.
Being very much grieved at this, each and every one began to say to him, Lord, it is not
I, is it?
In reply, he said, The one who dips his hand with me into the
bowl is the one who will betray me.
True, the Son of Man is going away just as it is written about him.
But woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed.
It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.
Judas, who was about to betray him, replied, It is not I, is it Rabbi?
Jesus said to him, You yourself said it.
As they continued eating, Jesus took a loaf and after saying a blessing, he broke it
and giving it to the disciples, he said, Take, eat, this means my body.
And taking a cup, he offered thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink out of it, all of
you.
For this means my blood of the covenant, which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness
of sins.
But I say to you, I will buy no means drink again any of this product of the vine until
that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my Father.
Finally, after singing praises, they went out to the Mount of Olives.
And Jesus said to them, All of you will be stumbled in connection with me on this night.
For it is written, I will strike the shepherd and the sheep of the flock will be scattered
about.
But after I have been raised up, I will go ahead of you into Galilee.
But Peter, in response, said to him, Although all the others are stumbled in connection
with you, I will never be stumbled.
Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, On this night, before a rooster crows, you will
disown me three times.
Peter said to him, Even if I should have to die with you, I will buy no means disown you.
All the other disciples also said the same thing.
When Jesus came with them to the spot called Gethsemane, and he said to the disciples,
Sit down here while I go over there and pray.
And taking along Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to feel grieved and to be
greatly troubled.
Then he said to them, I am deeply grieved, even to death, stay here and keep on the watch
with me.
And going a little way forward, he fell face down, praying, My Father, if it is possible,
let this cup pass away from me, Yet not as I will, but as you will.
He returned to the disciples and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, Could you not
so much as keep on the watch for one hour with me?
Keep on the watch and pray continually so that you may not enter into temptation.
The Spirit, of course, is eager, but the flesh is weak.
Again, a second time, he went off and prayed, My Father, if it is not possible for this
to pass away, unless I drink it, let your will take place.
And he came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
So leaving them, he again went off and prayed for a third time, saying once more the same
thing.
Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, At such a time as this, you are sleeping
and resting.
Look, the hour has drawn near for the Son of Man to be betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Get up, let us go.
Look, My betrayer has drawn near.
While he was still speaking, Look, Judas, one of the twelve came, and with him a large
crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying, Whoever it is I kiss, he is the one.
Take him into custody.
And going straight up to Jesus, he said, Greetings, Rabbi, and gave him a tender kiss.
But Jesus said to him, Fellow, for what purpose are you present?
Then they came forward and seized Jesus and took him into custody.
But look, one of those with Jesus reached out his hand and drew his sword and struck
the slave of the high priest, taking off his ear.
Then Jesus said to him, Return your sword to its place.
For all those who take up the sword will perish by the sword.
Or do you think that I cannot appeal to my father to supply me at this moment more
than twelve legions of angels?
In that case, how would the Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must take place this way?
In that hour Jesus said to the crowds, Did you come out to arrest me with swords and
clubs as against a robber?
Day after day I used to sit in the temple teaching, and yet you did not take me into
custody.
But all of this has taken place for the writings of the prophets to be fulfilled.
Then all the disciples abandoned him and fled.
It's a joy to be associated with you, and on behalf of the governing body, I'd like
to wish all of you a successful day in Jehovah's service and a blessed memorial observance
tonight.
Be assured that we love you all very much.
Now let's all get busy and see what we can do to invite as many as possible to the memorial.